## Meetings

Meetings are very important in the development process as they ensure
that everybody is on the same page and is one of the primary ways to
give and receive feedback to and from our clients. But, at the same
time, meetings can become a painful process where the team feels that
it's losing valuable time.

### Meeting tips

Before digging in to the particular process that we use at talPor, it
would be useful to keep some tips in mind to transform meetings into a
productive tool and a competitive advantage:

- **Start on time and finish on time**. People appreciate it when you
  understand that their time is valuable. Another note on time: Do not
  schedule any meetings to last longer than an hour. Sixty minutes is
  generally the longest time workers can remain truly engaged.

- **Stick to your schedule**. Create an agenda that lays out
  everything you plan to cover in the meeting. Once you're in the
  meeting, put that agenda somewhere accessible for everyone (Trello
  is a great alternative) and guide the flow of the meeting according
  to the points that are reflected there. This keeps people focused.

- **Identify who is responsible for leading each topic**. Someone
  other than the formal meeting leader is often responsible for
  leading the discussion of a particular agenda item. This person may
  be providing context for the topic, explaining data, or may have
  organizational responsibility for that area.  Identifying this
  person next to the agenda item ensures that anyone who is
  responsible for leading part of the agenda knows it -- and prepares
  for it -- before the meeting.

- **Recap decisions and actions just before the meeting ends**. For
  productive meetings, the end is just as important as the
  beginning. Don't let people leave the meeting in silent
  disagreement.

- **Follow up**. It's quite common for people to come away from the
  same meeting with very different interpretations of what went on. To
  reduce this risk, use Trello to highlight what was accomplished to
  all who attended, document the responsibilities given, tasks
  delegated, and any assigned deadlines.  This way, everyone will be
  on the same page.

### Weekly Meetings

At talPor we use weekly meetings to keep track of the progress of each
project.  Ideally these meetings happen every week, at the same day,
at the same time and are split into three meetings.


#### Pre-meeting

This meeting is just for the development team, it usually happens just
before meeting with the client. The key objective here is to make sure
that the team is on the same page with the line of communication that
is going to be delivered to the client.  It's important that everyone
is clear about what you will and won't say as well as how things will
be presented. Take time to prepare strategies to confront possible
problems or difficult situations that could arise during the next
meeting. Use the shared agenda with the client to make sure that you
can handle all the points reflected there. After the "Pre-meeting" the
team has to be able to explain the progress of the week, give feedback
related to the overall scope of the project and have a proposal of
what is going to be the focus of the next week.

#### Client Meeting

At this point the client joins the development team and the idea is to
answer the following questions

  - What was last week's progress?
  - Did we fulfill the expectations the team had? If we didn't,
    explain why and how does that affects our schedule.
  - How are we in regards to our schedule?
  - Are we meeting any particular deadline established with the
    client?
  - Is there any change in the scope of the project?
  - What is going to be the expectation for the next week?

This meeting is definitely key in the relationship with the clients,
but it's important to maintain constant communication with them over
the week to show any progress, because if we use this meeting to show
new features the meeting is going to take a long time.

**Slack** is your best tool for constant and effective communication.

Keep the project's **Trello** board updated and do your best to engage
the client there to receive as much feedback as possible before the
meeting.

#### Post-meeting

This happens immediately after the meeting with the client and is just
for the development team. The goal is to make sure that everyone knows
their respective responsibilities. Use this time to update Trello
according to the feedback received in the previous meeting.
