## The process

At the end of a project cycle or when somebody gets out of the
project, we run a *Post-mortem* or *Lessons learned* process.

The **Post-mortem** is a valuable tool to ensure continuous
improvement for a software development team. Although its name seems
forbidding, it's just a process to assess how a project went. Some
people prefer to call it a *Retrospective* instead because
*Post-mortem* seems to be a negative term that implies the death of a
project.

In our case, we will stick to *Post-mortem* or *Lessons learned* since
we actually run several retrospectives during the project's lifespan and
they have different approaches and goals than the ones being described
here.

In talPor *Post-mortems* are carried out in two phases. The first one
is individual to every member of the project and consists in filling
in a *Post-mortem report*. Each project member provides his own
reflection and assessment about the overall project arc in a way that
we can discover what went well and what could have been done better
next time around. The ultimate goal is "lessons learned" â€” a set of
actionable ideas for improving the next project.

The second phase consists in a *Post-mortem meeting*. This is where
the different reported outcomes are discussed and conclusions and
"lessons learned" are drawn.

There are two different scenarios where the *Post-mortems* are applied:

1. A team member gets out of the project.
2. The project cycle ends or the project is finished.

For each scenario there is a different course of action. If a **member
leaves the team** his post-mortem report will be evaluated in the
following *Retrospective meeting*. In this case, the retrospective
meeting will consists on the post-mortem evaluation as the first task,
from which the outcomes will be used as input for the current
retrospective where the ex-member is not bound to participate. In the
case where the **project cycle ends or the project is finished** we
organize a *Post-mortem meeting* as described before.

### Post-mortem report

The purpose of the project's Post-mortem Report is to record, in
detail, the specific project activities that were most effective and
those that require adjustments for future projects. It could be seen
as an overall reflection of what's been going on with the project. The
objective of this report is to inform the development teams about
those important lessons learned during the development of the project
(i.e. obstacles, challenges, successes, what could be done differently
next time, etc.), in a way that we can avoid making the same mistakes
and learn from them.

In talPor we have a custom post-mortem report template that is used to
gather this information. This template is sent as a Google
questionnaire and its answers are stored in a google spreadsheet. You
can make a copy of this
[questionnaire](https://docs.google.com/a/talpor.com/forms/d/1TLO9iZJszQ_tteUVIzovL1BDCWnmdAWe3mwgfiKqhWQ/edit)
for your project in order to carry out your own post-mortem process.

### Post-mortem meeting

After all the post-mortem reports have been filled in, it's time to
discuss and draw some team conclusions about the project. Once
everyone has written the *post-mortem report* we are on the same page
to discuss and derive some lessons learned about the process of the
project.

The meeting has to be scheduled as soon as all the post-mortem reports
have been filled and handed in. According to the following cases the
meeting will have different formats:

 - **One member leaves the team**: In this case, the post-mortem
   report of the one who left will be discussed during the next
   *retrospective* meeting of the project. At the beginning of the
   retrospective meeting, the post-mortem report of this member is
   discussed and the conclusions of that discussion will feed the
   retrospective meeting that will be carried out. It's not necessary
   that this member participates in the entire retrospective meeting
   as he doesn't belong to the team anymore.

 - **The project finishes or closes**: A post-mortem meeting is set up
   in this case and no more retrospective meetings are carried out. In
   this meeting the results of each post-mortem report are discussed
   and some conclusions and lessons learned are drawn.
